i've recently been experimenting with
building a macro keypad and just in
general finding ways to automate and
improve my work from home setup
i feel like there's just so many cool
uses for macro pads whether it's a
spotify shortcuts pad like this one
or an app launcher similar to a stream
deck the possibilities are endless with
these boards and they really make your
workflow more efficient
as a compsci major i'm pretty new to
soldering and hardware projects in
general
and i was looking for a kit that would
guide me into purchasing all the parts i
need for the build
and include resources on how to assemble
everything together
i decided to go with the sweet 16 built
from one of keyboards which lets you
customize and buy everything you need in
one set
and also has a very detailed how-to
video on their channel
to begin let's take a look at the parts
we have for this build
first up we have the sweet 16 pcb which
comes in black or white
we get a pro microboard and header pins
we have 16 diodes and one reset switch
4 standoff screws
16 switches i went with gatoron black
inks
and for keycaps they only had one option
which are these translucent keycaps you
can add images to so i went with those
you can also order a case and one of
keyboards have them in a bunch of
different colors but they were sold out
when i ordered so i didn't get one
i did find some on thingiverse and if
you do have access to a 3d printer there
are some really cool designs and cases
on there
for this build you'll also need some
basic soldering skills i'll link the
products i have below but definitely
watch a video or two before you start
to start i soldered the rails onto the
pcb i used the breadboard underneath
which really helped to keep everything
stable as i work through soldering the
pins
i do want to preface this by saying that
i am not the best at soldering so i will
be skimming through this build but
definitely watch the video on one up
keyboard's channel which is 30 minutes
long and goes into a lot more detail
so after soldering the headers i
installed the diodes i gently bended
them and matched up the black lines on
the diodes to the black lines on the pcb
next i soldered the diodes onto the pcb
from the top
[Music]
so that's what it looked like after
soldering the diodes onto the pcb
next i just flipped the board over and
took some cutters to gently cut off the
excess ends
next i added standoff screws to the
board and now it was time to add the
switches
they were pretty easy to snap on you
basically just have to match them to the
holes on the pcb
so after attaching all of those i went
in with my finger to ensure i can feel
the pins of each switch on the other
side
and then i just soldered those pins to
attach the switches to the board
and this was the finished product after
adding the switches
next i soldered the pro micro and the
reset switch onto the back which was
pretty much it for this build
the next step was to add the keycaps
which was probably the most satisfying
part so far
[Music]
so now it was time to figure out what i
wanted my macro keypad to do and design
the keycaps
i decided to go with three different
layouts one of them is an app launcher
kind of like a stream deck the other one
is a spotify shortcuts pad and then i
also did an emoji keypad
i basically cut out all of the different
keys and then added them into the
keycaps
now it was time to program the keys
i'm going to link an awesome video that
shows you how to flash the keyboard but
i'll describe the process that i took
essentially you're going to go on the
qmk configurator and choose the keyboard
you have
then you'll see that there's a bunch of
different keys and shortcuts that you
can choose from
depending on what you're using your
macro pad for you can probably just
flash it using the keys or shortcuts
found here
but since i wanted to create an app
launcher i did need some more
flexibility
i decided to flash the keypad with the
extra function keys such as f13 f14 etc
then i would have these function keys
trigger macros that would launch the
apps
here you can see me testing it and the
keys all correspond to the various
function keys
then i opened the automator app which is
a built-in macbook app and created a
macro that would launch an application
honestly automator is so cool because
you can create macros that do crazy
things and assign them to your keys
here i just created a macro that would
launch google chrome
then i opened system preferences and
created a shortcut that would run the
macro when the corresponding function
key was clicked
and here you can see me testing the
google chrome
key
and that was pretty much it for this
build i hope you guys enjoyed this video
and i'll see you in the next one
you